#### Roxanna Barahona
#### February 24, 2020
#### ISTA322 HW Ch13
- Topic: Garbage Collection - The process of destroying an object and returning memory to the heap is known as garbage collection.
Answer the discussion questions in writing.

1. What is the difference between a managed resource and an unmanaged resource?
- Managed resources are those that are pure .NET code and managed by the runtime and are under its direct control. Anything managed by the CLR (common language runtime)
- Unmanaged resources are those that are not. File handles, pinned memory, COM objects, database connections etc. These are native resources that are created and lifetime managed outside the CLR (Except GDI handles or sockets).

2. When is memory for an object (reference type) allocated? When is the memory deallocated?
- As the method executes, we need some memory for the "result" variable and it is allocated on the stack.
- The new operation converts the chunk of raw memory to an object; it has to initialize the
object. You can control this phase by using a constructor
- The memory is deallocated When the  variable goes out of scope, the  object is no longer being actively referenced.

3. What is a destructor?
 - A destructor allows you to control the tidying up that the common language runtime must perform when going through destruction.
 - it is a special method

4. What is the difference in syntax between a constructor and a destructor?
- The syntax for writing a destructor is a tilde (~) followed by the name of the class. CLR calls it after the reference to an object has disappeared.
- The syntax for writing a constructor is ();

5. Give some examples of scarce resources. Why would you want to manage scarce resources?
- Scarce resources such as memory, database connections, or file handles need to be released, and they need to be released as soon as possible.

6. What is exception-safe disposal?
- One way to ensure that a disposal method (such as Close) is always called, regardless of whether there is an exception, is to call the disposal method within a finally block. it ensures the disposal method is always called because you want to make sure the disposal code always runs


7. How do you think that the using statement works for resource management? Give an informal, English language, explanation of how it works.
- It works the same as a try/finally block. The using resource provides a clean mechanism for controlling the lifetime of resources. The object is created with the using statements, and is destroyed once the block is finished

8. What ill effects could result from attempting to dispose of a resource more than once?
- A correctly implemented Dispose method can be called multiple times without throwing an exception. However, this is not guaranteed and to avoid generating a System.ObjectDisposedException you should not call Dispose more than one time on an object.

9. We will look at threads later in the term. For now, what is your understanding of how threads interact with resource management? A good guess is a sufficient answer to this question.
- A thread is the basic unit to which an operating system allocates processor time. They are independent execution paths.  Each thread has a scheduling priority and maintains a set of structures the system uses to save the thread context when the thread's execution is paused. To keep the resource in a uncorrupted state and avoid race conditions, you must synchronize the thread access to it.

10. Why does the book recommend not attempting to force the garbage collector? Are their any exceptions to this recommendation?
- it is not recommended because the process  runs asynchronously—the method does not wait for garbage collection to be complete before it returns, so you still don’t know whether your objects have been destroyed.

what is the difference between the user directive and the using statement
- the using directive brings the namespace into scope
- the using statement ensures that the allocated block of memory  (scare resources - file handles, databases etc.) (exceptions)will be disposed at the end.
