#### Roxanna Barahona
#### February 28, 2020
#### ISTA322 HW Ch15

1. What is the difference between a property and a field?
- A property is a cross between a field and a method—it looks like a field but acts as a method. It can contain two blocks of code, starting with the get and set keywords.
- Properties expose fields
- The get block contains statements that execute when the property is read, and the set block contains statements that run upon writing to the property.
-
2. What is the difference between a property and a method?
- An object is a collection of properties, and a property is an association between a name and a value. A property's value can be a function, in which case the property is known as a method
- A property is a cross between a field and a method—it looks like a field but acts as a method. You access a property by using the same syntax that you use to access a field. However, the compiler automatically translates this field-like syntax into calls to accessor methods

3. What is your understanding of encapsulation?
-  Encapsulation refers to an object's ability to hide data and behavior that are not necessary to its user. Encapsulation enables a group of properties, methods and other members to be considered a single unit or object.
- Encapsulation is an important principle when defining classes. The idea is that a program that uses a class should not have to account for how that class actually works internally; the program simply creates an instance of a class and calls the methods of that class.
- To combine methods and data within a class; in other words, to support classification
- To control the accessibility of the methods and data; in other words, to control the use of the class

4. Some languages are case insensitive, that is, an ‘a” and an “A” are considered to be the same letter. C# is case sensitive. What implications does this have regarding the naming of variables, methods, and other identifiers? Do you think that the difference in case in the initial character of two different identifiers is sufficient to distinguish them?
- it is common to use identifiers that start with an uppercase letter for publicly accessible methods and fields and to use identifiers that start with a lowercase letter for private methods and fields

5. Give an example that is not in the book of an instance where you might want to use a read-only property. Give an example not in the book of an instance where you might want to use s write-only
property.
- In order to use a read-only property you must declare a property that contains only a get accessor
- you can declare a property that contains only a set accessor. In this case, you can use the property only in a write context

6. Can you think of a reason why you might ever want to make getters and setters private? Give an example. Also, make a case why getters and setters should never be private.
- THERE IS NO REASON
- you want to prevent future public access.
- you want to associate setting and getting with other actions
- you want a central access point

7. What are restrictions on the use of properties?
- You can assign a value through a property of a structure or class only after the structure or class has been initialized.
- You can’t use a property as a ref or an out argument to a method (although you can use a writable field as a ref or an out argument). This makes sense because the property doesn’t really
point to a memory location; rather, it points to an accessor method,
- A property can contain at most one get accessor and one set accessor. A property cannot contain other methods, fields, or properties.
- The get and set accessors cannot take any parameters. The data being assigned is passed to the set accessor automatically by using the value variable.
- You can’t declare properties by using const.
- AN INSTANCE IN AN OBJECT. AN OBJECT IS A BLOCK OF MEMORY / ALLOCATED SPACE IN THE HEAP
- The default is in C# that you pass by value, inside the method you have a copy, any copies are not reflected outside...

8. What is an object initializer? What is the syntax for an object initializer?
- Object initializers is the easiest and fastest way to assign values of an object's properties and fields
- By using the object initializers, we can pass the public properties values during when we are creating the object without explicitly invoking the class constructor.
- var person = new (name = 'Joe', species = 'Klingon'); // new creates a new object for the class. the class is
