#### Roxanna Barahona
#### March 9, 2020
#### ISTA 322 Ch 17


- Notes:
What is a generic type? you pass a type parameter versus when you create a class in C#, you are defining a type and that type becomes part of your program in the memory

1. What is a type parameter?
- a type parameter specifies the types that a generic class or method can use to operate. it also refers to an instance of any class. This is dynamically created.

2. What does a type parameter do?
- The type parameter is a placeholder for a specific type that a client specifies when an instance of a generic type is created.

3. How many type parameters can a generic class have?
- one or more type parameters separated by commas

4. What is the difference between a generic class and a generalized class?
- A generalized class can take objects of any type
- Generic class is a template that allows the complier to generate new type-specific classes on demand.
- General is the opposite of specific, whereas generic refers to something which has no unique features.

5. What is a constraint? How do you specify a constraint?
- Constraints inform the compiler about the capabilities a type argument must have. you can limit the type parameters of a generic class to those that implement a particular set of interfaces and therefore provide the methods defined by those interfaces
- public class PrintableCollection<T> where T : IPrintable

6. What is a generic method? How do you de fine a generic method?
- With a generic method, you can specify the types of the parameters and the return type by using a type parameter like that used when you define a generic class.
- You define generic methods by using the same type parameter syntax you use when you create
generic classes.

7. What do we mean when we say that a generic type interface is invariant?
- An invariant generic type means that you can only use the type originally specified.
- Invariants means that you cannot change the type of object

8. What do we mean when we say that a generic type interface is covariant?
- It means that the generic type interface is enabled for implicit conversion of a more derived type to a less derived type.
- you can use something that is derived other than what is specified.
- means a generic function can return a value of a different type as long as its a valid conversion to that type that you are returning

9. Does covariance work with value types? Does it work with reference types?
- No, because they only apply to reference types.  If you specify a value type for a variant type parameter, that type parameter is invariant for the resulting constructed type.
- works on the parameters (the input) to the function. its covariant if its consistent with the types defined.


10. What do we mean when we cay that a generic type interface is contravariant?
- An interface that has a contravariant type parameter allows its methods to accept arguments of less derived types than those specified by the interface type parameter.
