#### Roxanna Barahona
#### February 23, 2020
#### ISTA322 Ch.13


1. What is an interface as the term is used on object-oriented programming?
- An interface does not contain any code or data, instead it specifies the methods and properties that a class inherits from the interface must provide.
- An interface gives you only the name, return type, and parameters of the method.

2. How do you define an interface?
- You define it by using the interface keyword. It is syntactically similar to defining a class. You declare methods but never specify an access modifier.
 - Interface has no implementation they are simply declarations

3. Can an interface have variables, fields, or properties?
- No it cannot because there is no functionality in an interface

4. How do you define a method in an interface?
- In order to declare methods you do it the same way as in a class or structure, except that you never specify an access modifier(public, private, or protected).
- replace the body with a semi colon


5. Can you instantiate an object through an interface? Why or why not

- YES IT CAN
- An interface can't be instantiated directly. Its members are implemented by any class or struct that implements the interface.
- an interface doesn't have implementation

6. Using the new keyword, can you declare a reference to an interface?
- YES
- you can reference an object by using a variable defined as an interface that the
object’s class implements.
- you can use the (is) operator to verify that an object is an instance of a class that implements a specific interface

7. Can an object inherit from multiple interfaces? Can a class implement multiple interfaces? If so, how
can it do so?
- No, C# doesnt allow it
- A class can inherit from another class(one base class) and implement an interface at the same time (unlimited amount). In this case, C# does not distinguish between the base class and the interface by using specific keywords. A class must implement all the methods declared

8. What does it mean to explicitly implement an interface?
- You specify which interface a method belongs to when you implement it.(pg 294)
- you cannot specify the protection for methods that are part of an explicit interface implementation
- use interface dot method

9. What are the restrictions on interfaces?
this:
- 1. You’re not allowed to define any fields in an interface, not even static fields. A field is an implementation detail of a class or structure.
- 2. You’re not allowed to define any constructors in an interface. A constructor is also considered to be an implementation detail of a class or structure.
- 3. You’re not allowed to define a destructor in an interface. A destructor contains the statements used to destroy an object instance. You cannot specify an access modifier for any method. All methods in an interface are implicitly public.
- 4. You cannot nest any types (such as enumerations, structures, classes, or interfaces) inside an
interface.
- 5. An interface is not allowed to inherit from a structure or a class, although an interface can inherit from another interface. Structures and classes contain implementation; if an interface were allowed to inherit from either, it would be inheriting some implementation.

10. What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface? pg. 305
- The class is an abstraction of
common functionality rather than an entity in its own right. To declare that creating instances of a class is not allowed, you can declare that the class is abstract by using the abstract keyword.
- An abstract class can contain abstract methods and you can declare that the class is abstract by using the abstract keyword.

11. What is an abstract method?
- An abstract method is similar in principle to a virtual method, except that it does not contain a method body.

12. What is an sealed class?
- you can use the sealed keyword to prevent a class from being used as a base class if you decide that it should not be.

13. What is an sealed method?
- You can also use the sealed keyword to declare that an individual method in an unsealed class is sealed. This means that a derived class cannot override this method. You can seal only a method declared with
the override keyword, and you declare the method as sealed override. You can think of the interface, virtual, override, and sealed keywords as follows:
- 1. An interface introduces the name of a method.
- 2. A virtual method is the fi rst implementation of a method.
- 3. An override method is another implementation of a method.
- 4. A sealed method is the last implementation of a method.
